README.md, before:

# Neural Network Toolbox

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9%2B-blue)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-1.x-ff4b4b)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)

An interactive Streamlit app for learning core neural network concepts by building them from scratch. The app includes hands-on modules for perceptron, forward propagation, backward propagation, and a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) with visualizations and dataset support.

## Highlights

- Interactive, educational UI built with Streamlit
- Perceptron training with logic gates or custom CSV
- Forward and backward propagation walkthroughs
- MLP classifier with binary and multiclass support
- Built-in sample datasets (AND, IRIS)

## Project Structure

```
.
├─ app.py
├─ requirements.txt
├─ data/
│  ├─ AND.csv
│  └─ IRIS.csv
└─ src/
   ├─ assets/
   │  └─ documnets/
   │     ├─ back_propagation.py
   │     ├─ forward_propagation.py
   │     ├─ mnp.py
   │     └─ perceptron.py
   ├─ core/
   │  └─ perceptron.py
   └─ ui/
      ├─ backward_propagation.py
      ├─ forward_propagation.py
      ├─ mlp.py
      └─ perceptron_ui.py
```

## Architecture Overview

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    A[app.py] --> B[Streamlit UI Pages]
    B --> C[Perceptron UI]
    B --> D[Forward Prop UI]
    B --> E[Backward Prop UI]
    B --> F[MLP UI]
    A --> G[Docs Pages]
    G --> H[Perceptron Docs]
    G --> I[Forward Prop Docs]
    G --> J[Backward Prop Docs]
    G --> K[MLP Docs]
    C --> L[data/ OR uploaded CSV]
    F --> L
```

## Module Flow

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    X[Input Data] --> Y[Preprocess / Validate]
    Y --> Z[Forward Pass]
    Z --> AA[Loss]
    AA --> AB[Backward Pass]
    AB --> AC[Parameter Update]
    AC --> AD[Metrics / Visualization]
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.9+
- Packages listed in [requirements.txt](requirements.txt)

## Quick Start

1. Create and activate a virtual environment
2. Install dependencies
3. Run the Streamlit app

```bash
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/Scripts/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
streamlit run app.py
```

## Usage

- Use the sidebar to choose a module or open documentation pages.
- For Perceptron and MLP modules, select a logic gate or upload a CSV file.
- Configure parameters and run training to visualize results.

## Data Input Rules

- Perceptron module expects exactly two binary feature columns and a binary target.
- MLP module supports binary or multiclass targets and handles numeric and categorical features.
- Large datasets are rejected to keep performance stable in the UI.

## Notes

- This project is educational and focuses on explainability over performance.
- The MLP module includes basic preprocessing (standardization and one-hot encoding).

## License

MIT License - free to use, modify, and share for learning and beyond.

Commit message:

Add live app link and note about deployment in README

README.md, after:

# Neural Network Toolbox

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9%2B-blue)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-1.x-ff4b4b)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)
[![Live App](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live%20App-Streamlit-0aa5a8)](https://nn-tool-box.streamlit.app/)

An interactive Streamlit app for learning core neural network concepts by building them from scratch. The app includes hands-on modules for perceptron, forward propagation, backward propagation, and a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) with visualizations and dataset support.

[Click Here to the app!](https://nn-tool-box.streamlit.app/)  
<span style="color: #6c757d;">Since it's freely deployed, you may need to wake up the app.</span>

## Highlights

- Interactive, educational UI built with Streamlit
- Perceptron training with logic gates or custom CSV
- Forward and backward propagation walkthroughs
- MLP classifier with binary and multiclass support
- Built-in sample datasets (AND, IRIS)

## Project Structure

```
.
├─ app.py
├─ requirements.txt
├─ data/
│  ├─ AND.csv
│  └─ IRIS.csv
└─ src/
   ├─ assets/
   │  └─ documnets/
   │     ├─ back_propagation.py
   │     ├─ forward_propagation.py
   │     ├─ mnp.py
   │     └─ perceptron.py
   ├─ core/
   │  └─ perceptron.py
   └─ ui/
      ├─ backward_propagation.py
      ├─ forward_propagation.py
      ├─ mlp.py
      └─ perceptron_ui.py
```

## Architecture Overview

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    A[app.py] --> B[Streamlit UI Pages]
    B --> C[Perceptron UI]
    B --> D[Forward Prop UI]
    B --> E[Backward Prop UI]
    B --> F[MLP UI]
    A --> G[Docs Pages]
    G --> H[Perceptron Docs]
    G --> I[Forward Prop Docs]
    G --> J[Backward Prop Docs]
    G --> K[MLP Docs]
    C --> L[data/ OR uploaded CSV]
    F --> L
```

## Module Flow

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    X[Input Data] --> Y[Preprocess / Validate]
    Y --> Z[Forward Pass]
    Z --> AA[Loss]
    AA --> AB[Backward Pass]
    AB --> AC[Parameter Update]
    AC --> AD[Metrics / Visualization]
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.9+
- Packages listed in [requirements.txt](requirements.txt)

## Quick Start

1. Create and activate a virtual environment
2. Install dependencies
3. Run the Streamlit app

```bash
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/Scripts/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
streamlit run app.py
```

## Usage

- Use the sidebar to choose a module or open documentation pages.
- For Perceptron and MLP modules, select a logic gate or upload a CSV file.
- Configure parameters and run training to visualize results.

## Data Input Rules

- Perceptron module expects exactly two binary feature columns and a binary target.
- MLP module supports binary or multiclass targets and handles numeric and categorical features.
- Large datasets are rejected to keep performance stable in the UI.

## Notes

- This project is educational and focuses on explainability over performance.
- The MLP module includes basic preprocessing (standardization and one-hot encoding).

## License

MIT License - free to use, modify, and share for learning and beyond.
